[docs] Update Distributed Counter example app (#18453)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/guides/developer/app-examples/e2e-counter.mdx

---
title: Distributed Counter
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> This example walks you through building a basic distributed counter app, covering the full end-to-end flow of building your Sui Move module and connecting it your React Sui dApp. The app allows users to create counters that anyone can increment, but only the owner can reset. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example walks you through building a basic distributed counter app, covering the full end-to-end flow of building your Sui Move module and connecting it to your React Sui dApp. The app allows users to create counters that anyone can increment, but only the owner can reset. 
```

The guide is split into two parts:

1. [Smart Contracts](#smart-contracts): The Move code that sets up the `Counter` structure and logic.
1. [Frontend](#frontend): A UI that enables users to create, increment, and reset `Counter` objects.

:::tip Additional resources

[Example source code](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/c617f8dced6c61b7c2070a51999bc202d43f7375/examples/distributed-counter)

:::

## What the guide teaches

- **Shared objects:** The guide teaches you how to use [shared objects](../../../concepts/object-ownership/shared.mdx), in this case to create globally accessible `Counter` objects.

## What you need

Before getting started, make sure you have:

- [Installed the latest version of Sui](../getting-started/sui-install.mdx).

## Smart contracts {#smart-contracts}

In this part of the guide, you write the Move contracts that create, increment, and reset counters. The first step is to [set up a Move package](../first-app/write-package.mdx) for storing your Move modules.

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
```
Missed this the first time. I think we want these to be `:::info` instead. The note ones don't really show up too well.

Author: Gotcha, will update now. Looking at the [style guide](https://docs.sui.io/style-guide#note), does the :::info box follow similar logic to the purpose of the :::note box?

To follow along with this guide, set your new Move package to `counter`.

:::

### `Counter` struct

{@inject: examples/distributed-counter/counter/sources/counter.move#struct=Counter noComments}

- The `Counter` type stores the address of its `owner`, its current `value`, and its own `id`.

### Creating `Counter`

{@inject: examples/distributed-counter/counter/sources/counter.move#fun=create noComments}

In the `create` function, a new `Counter` object is created and [shared](../../../concepts/object-ownership/shared.mdx). 

> ### Incrementing and Reseting `Counter`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Incrementing and resetting `Counter`
```

---
title: Distributed Counter
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

> This example walks you through building a basic distributed counter app, covering the full end-to-end flow of building your Sui Move module and connecting it your React Sui Dapp. The app allows you to create counters that anyone can increment, but only the owner can reset. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example walks you through building a basic distributed counter app, covering the full end-to-end flow of building your Sui Move module and connecting it your React Sui dApp. The app allows you to create counters that anyone can increment, but only the owner can reset. 
```

The guide is split into two parts:

> 1. [Smart Contracts](#smart-contracts): The Move code set ups the `Counter` structure and logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Smart Contracts](#smart-contracts): The Move code that sets up the `Counter` structure and logic.
```

1. [Frontend](#frontend): A UI that enables users to create, increment, and reset `Counter` objects.

## What you need

Before getting started, make sure you have:

- [Installed the latest version of Sui](../getting-started/sui-install.mdx).

## Smart contracts {#smart-contracts}

> In this part of the guide, you will write the Move contracts that create, increment, and reset counters. The first step is to [set up a Move package](../first-app/write-package.mdx) for storing your Move modules. In this guide, the Move package will be labeled: `counter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this part of the guide, you write the Move contracts that create, increment, and reset counters. The first step is to [set up a Move package](../first-app/write-package.mdx) for storing your Move modules. In this guide, the Move package is labeled: `counter`.
```

### `Counter` struct

```move
public struct Counter has key {
  id: UID,
  owner: address,
  value: u64
}
```
- The `Counter` type stores the address of its `owner`, its current `value`, and its own `id`.

### Creating `Counter`

> ```move

Reviewer: Use the code inject plugin for code. I can add this at the end if you prefer. This one would be {@inject: examples/<path-to-file>#fun=create noComments}

  assert!(counter.owner == ctx.sender(), 0);
  counter.value = value;
}
```

The `set_value` function accepts a [mutable reference](/todo) to any shared `Counter` object, the `value` to set its `value` field, and the `ctx` which contains the `sender` of the transaction. This function can only be ran by the `Counter`'s `owner`.

## Finished package

The final module should look like this

```move
module counter::counter {
  /// A shared counter.
  public struct Counter has key {
    id: UID,
    owner: address,
    value: u64
  }

  /// Create and share a Counter object.
  public fun create(ctx: &mut TxContext) {
    transfer::share_object(Counter {
      id: object::new(ctx),
      owner: ctx.sender(),
      value: 0
    })
  }

  /// Increment a counter by 1.
  public fun increment(counter: &mut Counter) {
    counter.value = counter.value + 1;
  }

  /// Set value (only runnable by the Counter owner)
  public fun set_value(counter: &mut Counter, value: u64, ctx: &TxContext) {
    assert!(counter.owner == ctx.sender(), 0);
    counter.value = value;
  }
}
```

### Deployment {#deployment}

{@include: ../../../snippets/initialize-sui-client-cli.mdx}

> Next, configure the Sui CLI to use `testnet` as the active environment, as well. If you haven't already set up a `testnet` environment you can do so by running the following command in a terminal or console:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, configure the Sui CLI to use `testnet` as the active environment, as well. If you haven't already set up a `testnet` environment, do so by running the following command in a terminal or console:
```

│ Balance Changes                                                                                   │
├───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  ┌──                                                                                              │
│  │ Owner: Account Address ( 0x8e8cae7791a93778800b88b6a274de5c32a86484593568d38619c7ea71999654 )  │
│  │ CoinType: 0x2::sui::SUI                                                                        │
│  │ Amount: -8055080                                                                               │
│  └──                                                                                              │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

Store the `PackageID` value you receive in your own response to [connect to your frontend](#connecting-your-package).

### Next steps

Well done. You have written and deployed the Move package! 🚀

To turn this into a complete dApp, you need to [create a frontend](#frontend).

## Frontend {#frontend}

> In this final part of the app example, you will build a frontend (UI) that allows end-users to create, increment, and reset `Counter` objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this final part of the app example, you build a frontend (UI) that allows end users to create, increment, and reset `Counter` objects.
```

:::info

> To skip building the frontend and test out your newly deployed package, you can create this example using the following template and [connect your deployed package](#connecting-your-package): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To skip building the frontend and test out your newly deployed package, create this example using the following template and [connect your deployed package](#connecting-your-package): 
```

```bash
pnpm create @mysten/dapp --template react-e2e-counter
```

or

```bash
yarn create @mysten/dapp --template react-e2e-counter
```

:::

### Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have:

- [Deployed the complete `counter` Move module](#smart-contracts) and understand its design.

> - Installed [`pnpm`](https://pnpm.io/installation) or [`yarn`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) as it will be used as the package manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Installed [`pnpm`](https://pnpm.io/installation) or [`yarn`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/install/#mac-stable) to use as the package manager.
```

:::tip Additional resources

> - Tooling: [Sui Typescript SDK](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript). For basic usage on how to interact with Sui with Typescript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tooling: [Sui Typescript SDK](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/typescript) for basic usage on how to interact with Sui using Typescript.
```

> - Tooling: [Sui dApp Kit](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit). To learn basic building blocks for developing a dApp in the Sui ecosystem with React.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tooling: [Sui dApp Kit](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit) to learn basic building blocks for developing a dApp in the Sui ecosystem with React.js.
```

> - Tooling: [`@mysten/dapp`](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit/create-dapp). This is used within this project to quickly scaffold a React-based Sui dApp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tooling: [`@mysten/dapp`](https://sdk.mystenlabs.com/dapp-kit/create-dapp), used within this project to quickly scaffold a React-based Sui dApp.
```

:::

### Overview

The UI design consists of two parts:

- A button for users to create new `Counter` objects
- A `Counter` UI for users to view the `value`, and to increment and reset the `Counter` object.

### Scaffold a new app

> The first step is to set up the Client App. Run the following command to scaffold a new app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to set up the client app. Run the following command to scaffold a new app.
```
